Doctor: Hello Mrs. Smith, thank you for coming to Manor Manor Manor GP Practice. How can I help you today? Patient: Yes, So I came for my yearly check up, but I did notice a lamp on my breast that worries me a bit. OK, I I see. Doctor: First of all, can you confirm your date of birth please? Patient: Yes, it's 14 of February 1968. OK. Doctor: And your first line of address please? Patient: London, London. Doctor: OK, that's fine. OK. So I'm just going to put some PP on, if that's all right. And can I take a history from you, please? I already have your notes, but it would be good for me to take a new history. OK. OK. First, can I ask for you, Have you had any previous history of breast cancer? Patient: No, no, personally, Doctor: OK. Have you had any immediate family history of breast cancer? Patient: I have an aunt that had breast cancer I think late in her life when she was 80, OK? Doctor: Thank you. That's helpful. And can I ask how do you rate your diet and exercise activities? Patient: I'm quite active and I have a good diet, I think. Yeah, no smoking, Doctor: OK. And do you drink? Patient: The occasional glass of wine. Doctor: OK, so it's occasional. And can I ask, are you on any other medications at the moment? Patient: Not at the moment. Doctor: OK. OK. That's good to know. And what's the age of her first period? Patient: It was when I was 20. Doctor: OK. The reason I'm asking is that sometimes if you have a very early or very late period, it's associated with a high risk of breast cancer. OK. That's the reason I'm asking. Patient: I am also a perimenopause. Doctor: How are you dealing with that? Patient: I am okay, some hot flushes. I am not taking any hormonal medicine, only some vitamins. Doctor: Okay, let me know if you want to talk more about that. Do you have any children? Patient: Yes, I have one like this, 20 years old. Doctor: Oh, OK That's, that's lovely. Oh, so they must be university now. Patient: Yeah, Yeah, they are. And first year of uni. Doctor: how they're finding it? Patient: They want to be a doctor. Doctor: Oh, fantastic. OK, and can I ask, what age did you have your first child? Patient: Yeah, it was when I was 35. Doctor: OK. Patient: It was with IVF Doctor: IVF, OK, that's helpful though. I think that's the history. So where is the lump? Patient: It's on my left breast near my underarm. Doctor: OK. And can you point where the breast lump is ? Patient: Here Doctor: OK, I see so. And when did you first notice the breast lump? Patient: About Weeks ago, 2-3 weeks ago. Doctor: OK, so thanks for, umm letting us know so soon. That is really good that you did that. Patient: And does the lump feel soft or hard? Patient: It feels a bit hard. Doctor: OK. And does it feel smooth or irregular? Patient: I I can't really tell, but maybe it's irregular. Doctor: OK And is the breast lump painful? Patient: A little bit, Yeah, especially with some movement. Doctor: OK, I understand. And are are there any other symptoms that seem a satiated breast lump, Any symptoms in the last three weeks or before? Patient: I I think.And maybe they my breasts have changed size. I am not sure. I I have lost a bit of weight in the last couple of months as well. Doctor: I understand, I understand. in this three weeks has the breast lump change in size or the way it feels? Patient: I I think it may have grown Doctor:. OK, thank you. And is the lump size or discomfort related to your menstrual cycle? Patient: I'm not really sure because I have irregular periods now that I'm perimenopausal. Doctor: OK. And and do you know if the breast lump developed after a specific instant like a breast trauma or any physical accidents Patient: I don't recall any. Doctor: OK And if if is there breast pain present right now? Patient: Yeah. Doctor: OK. On scale one to 10, how severe is the pain? Patient: It's about 5-6. Doctor: OK, Just run down. Is there anything that triggers the pain? Patient: Maybe some physical exercise Doctor: OK. And is anything that improves the pain? Patient: Sometimes I have to take paracetamol or and some painkillers. Doctor: I understand, Mrs. Smith. I'm going to do a manual physical examination. Now I have a chaperone. So in practice, Nurse will be here to observe. You won't be part of it, but just to be observed if if if you're comfortable with me doing a physical examination. Patient: OK, that's fine. Doctor: I'm just putting gloves on, just going to have a look. OK, OK, just checking here, OK? Just let me know if there's any discomfort, OK? Patient: OK. Thank you. OK. Doctor: So Mrs. Smith, yeah, if you can sit down, please. So after examination, examining the lump and based on your history and what you just and your and your description, your symptoms, I would propose to refer you to the NHS breast cancer screening program. It normally takes about two to four weeks for your first appointment, but I'll put you as a priority if you do you think it could be breast cancer? I think it's it's worthwhile checking out. It could be breast cancer, it could not be breast cancer, but I think you have some of the symptoms that could be of breast cancer, so it's definitely worth checking out and I would strongly suggest that you attend. Patient: When would that be? Doctor: We'll be at two to four weeks, so it will put down priority. The NHS will will send you letter confirming the the the date and time. Oh, I also noticed that your paper customer in that case can't refer you to the Bupa breast cancer screening service is up to you as well. Which which one you want to go to. Patient: With my insurance Doctor: okay the people and they can see you next three days. Doctor: I can briefly explain what the process will be. If you have the questions you can ask me. Patient: So yeah, I'm not really sure what what, what kind of test. Doctor: OK, so they'll give you a mammogram, which is a breast X-ray. So they'll X-ray both breasts. It might be uncomfortable, but it shouldn't hurt. OK, it shouldn't. It might. It might be pain. It might. It might be uncomfortable. Especially if you have a tender breasts or if if you have breasts that are quite swollen that that might that might be able to confess shouldn't overly hurt. Well then, so this is so they'll take the X-rays and it will be done by female mammography. It should take about 30 minutes. The whole appointment should take only about 30 minutes. The whole X-ray should take a few minutes. The process you just need to address. You be in private changing room. You'll be naked and waist up and you may be given a hospital gown. You just take the X-ray machine where they'll squeeze your breasts between two pieces of plastic to make sure they get good, good scan of your breast, OK, and then squeeze it both horizontally and vertically. I've had them myself. Yeah, it can be especially first time as well. It can be quite daunting, but I think it's a medical situation, it's not. It's not going to be the most comfortable, but I think it's worth worth going. They'll they'll get a radio offer to assess your results and they'll send you results in the post. The results should take about a week and you can talk to mammography, who's a trained medical professional to if you have, if you have any questions. Do you have any other questions? Patient: Any other tests ? Doctor: They might do a needle test as well.It sounds like what is that? It is a biopsy. So they take a sample of your breast tissue and you take it and you send for analysis. They might also ultrasound, which is another way is like X-ray, but it's a different technique for scanning.And it tends to be used for scanning pregnant women because they're kind of low risk of X-rays. But for you that that wouldn't be the case. Patient: OK. Thank you very much. OK. Doctor: Awesome.